# @marctysonclebert/node-starter

NodeStarter is a versatile and customizable Node.js project generator. Quickly create Node.js projects with pre-configured TypeScript setups, integrated testing with Jest, an Express server, and a pre-configured file structure. Speed up your project startup process with NodeStarter!

## Table of Contents

- [@marctysonclebert/node-starter](#marctysonclebertnode-starter)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Description](#description)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Commands](#commands)
    - [`create`](#create)
  - [Contributions](#contributions)
  - [License](#license)

## Description

NodeStarter is a tool for generating Node.js projects that allows you to quickly create customized projects with the following features:

- Ready-to-use TypeScript configurations.
- Integrated testing with Jest for automated validation.
- Express server for web application development.
- Pre-configured file structure for efficient project organization.

This project generator enables you to speed up your project startup process by providing a solid and customizable foundation for your Node.js projects. It also includes the following pre-configurations:

- Git: NodeStarter initializes a Git repository in the project directory, allowing you to version your code and collaborate with other developers.
- Jest: NodeStarter sets up the Jest testing framework, pre-configured with sample test files and configurations. You can easily write and execute tests to validate your code.
- Environment Variables: NodeStarter provides pre-configured setup for managing environment variables in your project. You can define environment-specific configurations and access them in your code.

The project generated by NodeStarter offers a solid foundation with Git, Jest, and environment variable management, enabling you to develop robust and tested Node.js applications.

## Installation

To install NodeStarter in your project, you can use your preferred package manager. Here are the installation steps using npm:

```
$ npm i -g @marctysonclebert/node-starter
```

Make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) installed on your machine.

## Usage

After installing NodeStarter, you can run it using the following command:

```bash
$ npx node-starter
```

This will launch the NodeStarter command-line tool, which will guide you through the process of creating a new Node.js project.

## Commands

### `create`

To create a new project using NodeStarter, execute the following command after installing it:

```bash
$ node-starter create
```

This command will launch an interactive prompt that will ask you for project details such as:

- Project Name: Enter a name for your project. This name will be used as the directory name for your project.
- Project Type: Choose the project type from the provided options. You can select either JavaScript or TypeScript.
- Package Manager: Select the package manager you prefer to use for managing project dependencies. You can choose between npm, yarn, or pnpm.
- Dependencies: If you have any dependencies required for your project, you can specify them here. Enter the names of the dependencies, separated by spaces.
- DevDependencies: Similarly, if you have any devDependencies (development dependencies) needed for your project, you can specify them here.
- Additional Folders: If you need any additional folders in your project structure, you can specify them here. Enter the folder names, separated by spaces.
- Additional Files: If you have any additional files to include in your project, you can specify them here. Enter the file names, separated by spaces.

Once you have provided all the required information, NodeSt

arter will create the project with the specified configuration. It will set up the project directory, initialize the chosen package manager, and install the specified dependencies and devDependencies.

The project generated by NodeStarter offers a solid foundation with Git, Jest, and environment variable management, enabling you to develop robust and tested Node.js applications.

## Contributions

We highly encourage contributions to NodeStarter. If you would like to contribute, follow these steps:

1. Fork the GitHub repository.
2. Create a branch for your changes: `$ git checkout -b feature/your-feature`.
3. Make the necessary modifications and commit: `$ git commit -m 'Add a feature'`.
4. Push the changes to your fork: `$ git push origin feature/your-feature`.
5. Open a pull request to the `master` branch of the original repository.

We appreciate all contributions, whether they are bug reports, feature requests, or code fixes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/clebertmarctyson/NodeStarter/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more details.

---
